README.md, before:

# SDSC "vmd" roll

## Overview

This roll bundles the Visual Molecular Dynamics package.  For more information
about the package, please visit the <a href="http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd">official web page</a>.

## Requirements

To build/install this roll you must have root access to a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance).

If your Rocks development machine does *not* have Internet access you must
download the appropriate vmd source file(s) using a machine that does have
Internet access and copy them into the `src/<package>` directories on your Rocks
development machine.


## Dependencies

The sdsc-roll must be installed on the build machine, since the build process
depends on make include files provided by that roll.

The roll sources assume that modulefiles provided by SDSC compiler, python,
and MPI
rolls are available, but it will build without them as long as the environment
variables they provide are otherwise defined.

The build process requires cmake and the NETCDF and HDF5 libraries and
assumes that the modulefiles provided by the SDSC cmake-roll, netcdf-roll and
hdf-roll are available.  It will build without the modulefiles as long as
the environment variables they provide are otherwise defined.


## Building

To build the vmd-roll, execute this on a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance):

```shell
% make 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

A successful build will create the file `vmd-*.disk1.iso`.  If you built the
roll on a Rocks frontend, proceed to the installation step. If you built the
roll on a Rocks development appliance, you need to copy the roll to your Rocks
frontend before continuing with installation.
with installation.

This roll source supports building with different compilers and for different
MPI flavors and python installations.  The `ROLLCOMPILER`, `ROLLMPI`, and
`ROLLPY` make variables can be used to specify the names of compiler, MPI, and
python modulefiles to use for building the software, e.g.,

```shell
make ROLLCOMPILER=intel ROLLMPI=mvapich2_ib ROLLPY=opt-python 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

The build process recognizes "gnu", "intel" or "pgi" as the value for the
`ROLLCOMPILER` variable; any MPI modulefile name may be used as the value of
the `ROLLMPI` variable, and any python modulefile name for the ROLLPY variable.
The default values are "gnu", "rocks-openmpi", and "python".


## Installation

To install, execute these instructions on a Rocks frontend:

```shell
% rocks add roll *.iso
% rocks enable roll vmd
% cd /export/rocks/install
% rocks create distro
```

Subsequent installs of compute and login nodes will then include the contents
of the vmd-roll.  To avoid cluttering the cluster frontend with unused
software, the vmd-roll is configured to install only on compute and
login nodes. To force installation on your frontend, run this command after
adding the vmd-roll to your distro

```shell
% rocks run roll vmd host=NAME | bash
```

where NAME is the DNS name of a compute or login node in your cluster.

In addition to the software itself, the roll installs vmd environment
module files in:

```shell
/opt/modulefiles/applications/vmd
```


## Testing

The vmd-roll includes a test script which can be run to verify proper
installation of the roll documentation, binaries and module files. To
run the test scripts execute the following command(s):

```shell
% /root/rolltests/vmd.t 
```

Commit message:

APS-1065 mention the use of python 3 in README.md

README.md, after:

# SDSC "vmd" roll

## Overview

This roll bundles the Visual Molecular Dynamics package.  For more information
about the package, please visit the <a href="http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd">official web page</a>.

## Requirements

To build/install this roll you must have root access to a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance).

If your Rocks development machine does *not* have Internet access you must
download the appropriate vmd source file(s) using a machine that does have
Internet access and copy them into the `src/<package>` directories on your Rocks
development machine.


## Dependencies

The sdsc-roll must be installed on the build machine, since the build process
depends on make include files provided by that roll.

The roll sources assume that modulefiles provided by SDSC compiler, python,
and MPI
rolls are available, but it will build without them as long as the environment
variables they provide are otherwise defined. Note that as of vmd 1.9.4, vmd uses python 3 in order to use the latest numpy.

The build process requires cmake and the NETCDF and HDF5 libraries and
assumes that the modulefiles provided by the SDSC cmake-roll, netcdf-roll and
hdf-roll are available.  It will build without the modulefiles as long as
the environment variables they provide are otherwise defined.


## Building

To build the vmd-roll, execute this on a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance):

```shell
% make 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

A successful build will create the file `vmd-*.disk1.iso`.  If you built the
roll on a Rocks frontend, proceed to the installation step. If you built the
roll on a Rocks development appliance, you need to copy the roll to your Rocks
frontend before continuing with installation.
with installation.

This roll source supports building with different compilers and for different
MPI flavors and python installations.  The `ROLLCOMPILER`, `ROLLMPI`, and
`ROLLPY` make variables can be used to specify the names of compiler, MPI, and
python modulefiles to use for building the software, e.g.,

```shell
make ROLLCOMPILER=intel ROLLMPI=mvapich2_ib ROLLPY=opt-python 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

The build process recognizes "gnu", "intel" or "pgi" as the value for the
`ROLLCOMPILER` variable; any MPI modulefile name may be used as the value of
the `ROLLMPI` variable, and any python modulefile name for the ROLLPY variable.
The default values are "gnu", "rocks-openmpi", and "python".


## Installation

To install, execute these instructions on a Rocks frontend:

```shell
% rocks add roll *.iso
% rocks enable roll vmd
% cd /export/rocks/install
% rocks create distro
```

Subsequent installs of compute and login nodes will then include the contents
of the vmd-roll.  To avoid cluttering the cluster frontend with unused
software, the vmd-roll is configured to install only on compute and
login nodes. To force installation on your frontend, run this command after
adding the vmd-roll to your distro

```shell
% rocks run roll vmd host=NAME | bash
```

where NAME is the DNS name of a compute or login node in your cluster.

In addition to the software itself, the roll installs vmd environment
module files in:

```shell
/opt/modulefiles/applications/vmd
```


## Testing

The vmd-roll includes a test script which can be run to verify proper
installation of the roll documentation, binaries and module files. To
run the test scripts execute the following command(s):

```shell
% /root/rolltests/vmd.t 
```
